Supplemental data public docs (#477)
codatio/codat-docs: docs/using-the-api/additional-data.md

---
title: "Supplemental data"
sidebar_label: "Supplemental data"

> description: "Retrieve and update additional fields from an integration using supplemental data"

Reviewer: Perhaps we should update the description here and define what supplemental data is?
```suggestion
description: "Customize data types with additional fields not present in Codat's out-of-the box data models"

```

></iframe>

## How do I configure supplemental data?

You'll need to specify what supplemental data should be passed in the response for each integration and data type pair you require. To do so, use the [endpoint name]/endpoint link.

```http
/integrations/{platformKey}/datatypes/{datatype}/supplementalDataConfig
```

Within the request body, `PlatformEndpoint` and `PlatformPropertyName` parameter values must match the integration's requirements exactly, including casing. Ensure you are familiar with the source data structure as Codat does not validate the supplemental data values against the integration provider.

```json title="Supplemental data configuration request body"
{
    "supplementalDataConfig": {
        "{ClientObjectName}": {
            "dataSource": "/{PlatformEndpoint}",
            "pullData": {
                "{ClientDefinedName}":"{PlatformPropertyName}",
                "{ClientDefinedName2}": "{PlatformPropertyName2}"
            },
            "pushData": {
                "{ClientDefinedName}":"{PlatformPropertyName}",
                "{ClientDefinedName2}": "{PlatformPropertyName2}"
            },
        }
    }
}
```

> You can use dot notation to retrieve nested properties from within the supplemental data object. For example, maintain the following configuration to retrieve the `Name` value from Xero's `BrandingTheme` object with two properties, `BrandingThemeID` and `Name`.

Reviewer: We should continue to use the supplier example mentioned above.

```json title="Supplemental data configuration with dot notation"
{
    "supplementalDataConfig": {
        "client-Keyname-For-Xero-suppliers": {
            "dataSource": "/Contacts",
            "pullData": {
                "BrandingThemeName": "BrandingTheme.Name"
            }
        }
    }
}
```

You can also retrieve your existing supplemental data configuration by using the [endpoint name]/endpoint link endpoint:
```http
GET /integrations​/{platformKey}/datatypes/{datatype}/supplementalDataConfig
```

> 

Reviewer: We should have a concrete example for a single and data type and then link out to our OAS for other examples

Author: lmk if this is better

## Codat to platform endpoint mapping

**EVERYTHING IN THIS SECTION SHOULD GO TO THE OAS**

Review the table below for platform endpoints we use in our data types, which are available for you to pull or send supplemental data. 

> <iframe

Reviewer: This is great but we should add links to the platform's docs. Top level is good enough, something like: Xero (see docs)

---
title: "Supplemental data"
sidebar_label: "Supplemental data"

> description: "Customize data types with additional fields not present in Codat's out-of-the box data models"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: "Customize data types with additional properties not included in Codat's out-of-the box data models"

```

---

## What is supplemental data?

> Supplemental data is additional data you can include in Codat's standard data types. Integrations may contain fields not supported by our out-of-the-box data model, so you can use supplemental data to fetch, create, or update these fields alongside our standard ones. 

Reviewer 2: This word doesn't feel specific enough, thinking hard about it

> Supplemental data is additional data you can include in Codat's standard data types. Integrations may contain fields not supported by our out-of-the-box data model, so you can use supplemental data to fetch, create, or update these fields alongside our standard ones. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Codat's supported data types include a number of standardized properties. Some data sources (e.g. Xero) may include data not covered by our data model. You can use supplemental data to extend our data type models to fetch, create, or update these other properties.

```

> For example, to pull our `suppliers` data type from Xero, we use Xero's [Contacts](https://developer.xero.com/documentation/api/accounting/contacts) endpoint. While we already include many of the properties of that endpoint in our standard data model, some properties, like supplier bank account details (`BankAccountDetails`), are not included. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, consider our Xero integration. Codat's `suppliers` data type is based on Xero's [Contact](https://developer.xero.com/documentation/api/accounting/contacts) schema. Some properties (like `TaxNumber`) are mapped, whereas some properties (like `BankAccountDetails`), are not mapped by default, but can be included as supplemental data. 

```

> By configuring supplemental data for this property, you will be able to fetch `BankAccountDetails` every time you pull our standard `suppliers` data from Xero.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By configuring supplemental data for this Xero property, getting `suppliers` data from Xero could additionally include `BankAccountDetails`.

```
